GABRIEL OYIKWU
STUDY GROUP QUESTIONS (9TH - 15TH OCT 2023)
HOW TO BE A BLESSING TO YOUR CHURCH (Book)
CHAPTER FIVE

1. A friend of yours wonders why there is the need for authorithy in the local church. 
He further states that everything should be done as believers like since it is our 
Father's house. Explain to him accordingly using scenarios in the Epistles.

The local church is a place of order and every believer oughtto have this understanding.
Paul spoke about this in his first letter to the church in Corinthians.

1st Corinthians 11:34  And if any man hunger, let him eat at home; that ye come not 
together unto condemnation. And the rest will I set in order when I come. 

Also in Chapter 14

1st Corinthians 14:40  Let all things be done decently and in order. 

The immediate context here was concerning the demonstration of the gifts in the Spirit,
when we come together, yet he gave the same instructions as touching orderliness.

He further expantiated this in his first letter to Timothy

1st Timothy 3:14 - 15 These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly: 
15  But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in 
the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. 

As such, there is a way we must conduct ourselves in the local church (gathering of 
believers). The phrase "that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the 
hosue of God" clearly implies that no one has the right to behave anyhow.

From Paul's words in the above texts, it is evident that every activity in the local
church must be done decently and orderly. Thus, the reason for authorithy in the local 
assembly is orderliness.

This explains why Paul in his introductory words said to Timothy

1st Timothy 1:3 - 4 As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into 
Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine, 
4  Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions, 
rather than godly edifying which is in faith: so do. 

Timothy was the one to ensure that no one in Ephesus taught any other doctrine.

1st Timothy 3:1 - 2 This is a true saying, If a man desire the office of a bishop,
he desireth a good work. 2  A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, 
vigilant, sober, of good behaviour, given to hospitality, apt to teach; 

He was to appoint Bishops; those who have oversight functions (via the teaching of God's 
word) in the lives of people, at Ephesus.

2 Timothy 2:1 - 2 Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 
2  And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit 
thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. 

He was the one who had the responsibility of committing the Pauline theology to minsters 
of the gospel at Ephesus. clearly, Timothy was the Pastor of the church at Ephesus, Paul 
gave similar instructions to Titus. 

Titus 1:5 For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things
that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee: 

Similar to Timothy, Titus was the Pastor of the Church at Crete. So, Timothy and Titus 
were sent by Paul to bring orderliness to the churches at Ephesus and Crete respectively.
This explains why he gave them several instructions as touching believers and activities
in the local assembly.

2. Explain the important attitudes the believer must have to the gathering of saints.

Punctulity is an important attitude a believer must have to all Christian meetings. A 
meeting you go late to is one you have no regard for and are not show no seriousness.
Christian meetings have definite times as instructed by our leaders and this is part of 
the way we should behave well in the local church. 

As seen in the book of Acts, Luke recorded tht there was such a thing as 'hour of prayer',
definite time set aside for prayer meeting and we see Peter and John going for such meeting.

Acts 3:1 Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being
the ninth hour.

The Jews began their day at 6:00 am. This would mean that the ninth hour will be 3:00pm. 
This implies there was a time dedicated for prayer meetings by the apostles in the church at
Jerusalem.

We would see another account in Acts 2.

Actss 2:1 And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in
one place. 

Jesus instructed the apostles to wait in Jerusalem to be endued with power from on High 
(Luke 24:49, Acts 1:4 - 5, Acts 1:8). They were gathered in one accord on the day of 
Pentecost as instructed. This shows that no one got in late or was absent. 

Hence, the service of God ought to be attended to with the attitude of punctuality. This is
how we ought to treat all Christian meetings.

That is why Paul wrote to Timothy concerning the proper way to behave in the House of God.

1 Timothy 3:15  But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave 
thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and 
ground of the truth. 

Every segment of a church service is integral to the spiritual growth and edification of 
every believer present which shold be seen as prominent. As such, punctuality is an
instruction and not just a suggestion.

1st Corinthians 14:26  How is it then, brethren? when ye come together, every one of you 
hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath an interpretation. 
Let all things be done unto edifying. 

In ministering to one another in a believer's meeting, it is critical that we are punctual 
in our coming together as this would enhance our being in one accord, so no one is left out 
because of lateness.

Punctulity to our gatherings proves our honour and love for fellow believers and the local
church. Church meetings must be attended with a sense of duty and seriousness. As such, it 
is essential that believers attend all meetings with a Bible and writing materials.

This is to show that the local church is a place of teaching and training by God's word.

Another attitude that believers ought to Christian meetings is to be "in one accord". In the 
Book of Acts, one key attitude that believers embodied was being 'in one accord'.

Acts 1:14 These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women,
and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. 

Before the day of Pentecost, all the disciples continued in prayer together. 

Acts 2:1 And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord 
in one place. 

Acts 2:46 And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread
from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, 

Acts 5:12 And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among
the people; (and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch. 

To be in 'one accord,' implies to be and act in agreement with what other are doing in a 
church meeting, as determined by the leadership of the local assembly. In other words, 
believers ought to be found doing the same things that every other participant is doing.

As a believer, we can practice being in one accord in the local church in the following ways:

a) Praying wehn all other members are praying.
b) Singing when al other members are singing.
c) Lifting hands when all other members are lifting hands.
d) Listening to God's word when all other members are Listening to God's word.
e) Reading when all other members are reading.
f) Taking down notes when the word of Gd is being taught. 

Doing otherwise is not to be in one accord with other members in the local church.

3. What is the reason the believer must go to church with a Bible and writing materials?

Going to church with a Bible and writing materials shows a sense of duty and seriousness in
that believer. The local church is a place of teaching and training by God's word. 

4. Explain to a new believer the reson why he/she must attend all the meetings in the 
local church using the book of Acts and the Epistles.

As a member of a local church, it is my responsibility to be present at all meetings held
or organized there. As such, I should not cherry pick meetings to attend.

Every meeting in the local church is for the sole purpose of edification of believers and 
that they are trained for the work of ministry. Paul said this much in his letters to the 
Corinthians and Ephesians respectively.

1st Corinthians 11:17 Now in this that I declare unto you I praise you not, that ye come 
together not for the better, but for the worse. 

Ephesians 4:11 - 16 And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; 
and some, pastors and teachers; 12  For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the 
ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ: 13  Till we all come in the unity of the 
faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the 
stature of the fulness of Christ: 14  That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and
fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning 
craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive; 15  But speaking the truth in love, may 
grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ: 16  From whom the whole body
fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the 
effectual working in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body unto the 
edifying of itself in love. 

Also, observe Peter's submissions when someone was to be chosen to replace Judas.

Acts 1:21 - 23 Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the time that the 
Lord Jesus went in and out among us, 22 Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that 
same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of 
his resurrection. 23  And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamed 
Justus, and Matthias. 

The person they would choose must:

a) Have companied with them all the time,
b) Beginining from the baptism of John (Luke 3:21 - 22),
c) Up until the resurrection of Jesus, and his ascension into their hearts.

So, it was important that the person has been with them all the time, that is, being at all
the meetings and throughout the course of Jesus' earthly ministry. Therefore, as a member
of a local church, one should be present at every meeting in that local assembly.

In the book of Acts they had;

Teaching meetings

Acts 1:15 - 16 And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples, and said, 
(the number of names together were about an hundred and twenty,) 16 Men and brethren, 
this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David
spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus. 

Acts 2:42 And they continued stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in
breaking of bread, and in prayers... 46 And they, continuing daily with one accord in the
temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and 
singleness of heart, 

Acts 11:25 - 26 Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Saul: 26 And when he had 
found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass, that a whole year they 
assembled themselves with the church, and taught much people. And the disciples were 
called Christians first in Antioch. 

Acts 19: 9 - 10 But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evil of that 
way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, disputing 
daily in the school of one Tyrannus. 
10  And this continued by the space of two years; so that all they which dwelt in Asia 
heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. 

Prayer meetings 

Acts 1:14 These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the
women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. 

Acts 2:42 And they continued stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, 
and in breaking of bread, and in prayers. 

Acts 4:23 - 24  Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge 
of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain: 
24  Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it was not 
possible that he should be holden of it. 31  He seeing this before spake of the 
resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh 
did see corruption. 

Acts 12:5  Peter therefore was kept in prison: but prayer was made without 
ceasing of the church unto God for him. 21  And upon a set day Herod, arrayed in
 royal apparel, sat upon his throne, and made an oration unto them. 

They also had believer's meetings (the Holy Ghost Meetings )

Acts 2:1 - 4  And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with
one accord in one place. 2  And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing 
mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. 3 And there appeared 
unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. 4 And they were
all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit 
gave them utterance. 

Paul taught concerning such meetings in his letter to the Corinthians

1st Corinthians 14:23 - 26 If therefore the whole church be come together into one place, 
and all speak with tongues, and there come in those that are unlearned, or unbelievers, 
will they not say that ye are mad? 24  But if all prophesy, and there come in one that 
believeth not, or one unlearned, he is convinced of all, he is judged of all: 25 And 
thus are the secrets of his heart made manifest; and so falling down on his face he will 
worship God, and report that God is in you of a truth. 26 How is it then, brethren? 
when ye come together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, 
hath a revelation, hath an interpretation. Let all things be done unto edifying. 

They also had house to house meetings, which today can serve as the "cell meetings".

Acts 5:42 And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not to teach and
preach Jesus Christ. 

Acts 20:20 And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have shewed 
you, and have taught you publickly, and from house to house, 

Believers were also trained to preach the gospel to others.

Acts 8:4 - 6 Therefore they that were scattered abroad went every where preaching the word. 
5 Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them. 6 And the 
people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing 
the miracles which he did. 

Acts 11:19 - 21 Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose 
about Stephen travelled as far as Phenice, and Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to
none but unto the Jews only. 20  And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which, 
when they were come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the Lord Jesus. 
21  And the hand of the Lord was with them: and a great number believed, and turned unto 
the Lord. 

No one was exempted from any of the meetings. So, all these meetings must be seen as 
important, and every believer must ensure that he (she) attends dutifully every meeting held
in the local assembly. 

5. Explain what the role of honour is in the local church and how it affects how other
believers are treated.

Honour is an important attitude we ought to show to every member of the local church. Honour
means to treat with respect and regard as sacred, and there are several instructions to
treat believers with honour.

Romans 12:9 Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which
is good. 

As we honour believers, it is important that we recognise from the scriptures, who the 
believer really is in Christ. Honour would be to see the believer how God sees him.

a) Every believer is indwelt by the Holy Spirit

1st Corinthians 2:12  Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which 
is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. 

1st Corinthians 6:17 - 20  But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. 18 Flee 
fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth 
fornication sinneth against his own body. 19 What? know ye not that your body is the temple 
of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own? 
20  For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit,
which are God's. 

Romans 8:11 But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he 
that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit 
that dwelleth in you. 

b) Every believer is sanctified

1st Corinthians 6:11 And such were some of you: but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, 
but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God. 

Hebrews 10:10 By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of 
Jesus Christ once for all. 14  For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that 
are sanctified. 

c) Every believer is the temple of God

2nd Corinthians 6:14 - 16  Be ye not unequally yoked together with unbelievers: for what 
fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? and what communion hath light with 
darkness? 15  And what concord hath Christ with Belial? or what part hath he that believeth
with an infidel? 16 And what agreement hath the temple of God with idols? for ye are the 
temple of the living God; as God hath said, I will dwell in them, and walk in them; and I 
will be their God, and they shall be my people. 

Hebrews 3:6 But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the 
confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.

So, the believer is sacred and we ought to treat the believer as such. We cannot treat the
believer lesser than who he is. We must treat believers as members of the same body - 
family of God; our Family.

Ephesians 3:14 - 15 For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
15  Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, 

Galatians 6:10 As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially 
unto them who are of the household of faith. 

As such, we are mandated to treat believers with so much regard and respect. To walk in 
honour towards members in the local church, we would have to walk in love towards them 
as the scriptures instruct.

Romans 12:9 - 10 Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to 
that which is good. 10  Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in 
honour preferring one another;

Ephesians 4:31 - 32  Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evil 
speaking, be put away from you, with all malice: 32 And be ye kind one to another, 
tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. 

Ephesians 5:1 - 2  Be ye therefore followers of God, as dear children; 2 And walk in love, 
as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice 
to God for a sweetsmelling savour. 

1st Peter 4:8 And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves: for charity
shall cover the multitude of sins. 

To honour fellow believers, would imply to walk in love towards them. Walking in love 
towards believers would be forgiving believers when they offend us and giving no room 
to strife.

1st Corinthians 6:1 - 8 Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before 
the unjust, and not before the saints? 2 Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the 
world? and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest 
matters? 3 Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to 
this life? 4  If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set them to judge
who are least esteemed in the church. 5 I speak to your shame. Is it so, that there is not 
a wise man among you? no, not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren? 6  But 
brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers. 7 Now therefore there 
is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why do ye not rather 
take wrong? why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded? 
8  Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren. 

It is wrong to treat believers as ordinary people even when they are wrong. That's why Paul
said '... why nor rather suffer wrong?'. He shed more light to this in Chapter 13.

1st Corinthians 13:4 - 8  Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity 
vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up, 5  Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her 
own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil; 6 Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth 
in the truth; 7 Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all 
things. 8 Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether 
there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. 

We ought to regard and respect fellow believers and there is no better place to practice
this than in the local church. We are to esteem believers better than ourselves.

Philippians 2:3  Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowliness of mind
let each esteem other better than themselves. 

Furthermore, we ought to treat believers better than ourselves. Walking in honour would 
make us treat believers very well and that would be seeing them in the light of Christ. 
Hence, we would be able to do more as we would easily walk in one accord as believers.